License
=======

OSE (8.0)

| Copyright 1992-1993 OTC LIMITED
| Copyright 1994 TELSTRA CORPORATION LIMITED
| Copyright 1994-2005 DUMPLETON SOFTWARE CONSULTING PTY LIMITED

All rights reserved.

This software contains licensed program materials which are the copyright
of Telstra Corporation Limited and which are licensed to Dumpleton Software
Consulting Pty Limited by Telstra Corporation Limited.

To the best of its knowledge Dumpleton Software Consulting Pty Limited has
the right to grant permission to use this software under the terms listed
below.

The build environment called "makeit", if provided as part of this package,
is made available under the terms of a `BSD style license`_.

The source code for the C++ library which is contained within the
"software/library" and "software/include" subdirectories and the resultant
libraries created from compiling that source code may be used and
distributed under the terms and conditions of the `Q Public License`_
version 1.0.

The source code for the Python wrappers encapsulating aspects of the
functionality provided by the C++ library and which are contained within
the "software/python", "software/netrpc", "software/netsvc" and
"software/zsirpc" directories, are made available under the terms of a `BSD
style license`_.

Note that the resultant loadable module created to support the Python
wrappers will contain object code resulting from the compilation of code
from the C++ library. Under normal circumstances this would mean that use
of the Python wrappers would also be governed by the terms and conditions
of the Q Public License. As a special exception, provided that no changes
are made to any of the C++ source code, the Python wrappers may be used
without the terms and conditions of the Q Public License applying to your
Python based application. This exception does not invalidate any other
reason why an application making use of the C++ library might be covered by
the terms and conditions of the Q Public License.

In summary, if you are developing C++ applications using the C++ library
from this package you are bound by the `Q Public License`_. That license
requires you to make the source code for your application freely available
if you distribute it to others. If on the other hand your application is
developed completely in Python using only the Python wrappers, the special
exception listed above means that you are not obligated to make your Python
code freely available. You must however still provide the source code of
this package to any recipient of any application of yours which you
distribute which makes use of those Python wrappers.

Any other C++ and/or Python code provided with OSE in the way of example
programs may be used for any purpose under the terms of the same `BSD style
license`_.

.. _Q Public License: qpl-license.html
.. _BSD style license: bsd-license.html
